2. Background
This study is guided by the Conceptual Model for TD initially defined by Avgeriou et al. (2016) [6], described by Izurieta et al. (2016) [22], and expanded by Rios et al. (2018). The Conceptual Model for TD represents the properties, artifacts, and elements related to TDIs, types of debt, strategies, activities, and tools to support TDM.
A TDI represents an instance of the TD and has several causes (factors that lead to the occurrence of the TDI) and consequences for the project. A TDI can be associated with one or more artifacts of the software development process [23].
The costs of the TDIs can be understood as the joining of the concepts of principal value, interest value, and interest probability. The principal value refers to the cost to eliminate the debt, i.e., the effort required to complete the task. The interest amount is the potential penalty in terms of increased effort and decreased productivity that will have to be paid in the future due to not completing these tasks in the present, including the extra cost of paying off the debt later. The interest probability is the probability that the debt, if not repaid, will make other work more expensive over a given period or a release [16, 23].
For TD Management, Carolyn Seaman and Yuepu Guo (2011) proposed a framework that consists of three stages: (1) TD identification to build a list of debts; (2) TD measurement through its payment efforts; and (3) TD monitoring to support the decision-making of whether and when to deal with them [16]. Rios et al. (2018) described the following TDM macro-activities: prevention, identification, monitoring, and payment. Documentation and Communication activities are carried out throughout the entire TDM process.
TD affects everyone involved in the project, regardless of the cause. Team members usually discuss TD among themselves, but they understand that there are difficulties when presenting evidence of TD to the management [24].
The management of TD requires some investments that are unknown to the professionals and are difficult to be justified by the cost/benefit ratio. Consequently, it is difficult to make it visible without investing in processes and tools to identify the TD. And it is difficult to argue in favor of the invisible TD refactoring. This represents a vicious cycle: companies suffer the adverse effects of the TD and try to contain it, but, at the same time, they do not find enough motivation to invest in a more systematic management process [8]. 
Usually, TD is not paid to eliminate TD but to make a profitable investment in the software. For example, it is not desirable to pay the TD of a project in a legacy system that is guaranteed to remain unchanged in the future [25]. However, the cost of TD is more than just the cost of refactoring the source code; it should include the liabilities associated with the consequences caused by low quality software [24].
A model for TDM should foresee the contexts in which TD is identified and evaluated so that decisions can help companies to take advantage of opportunities and anticipate meeting market needs [15]. TDM must be based on a rational approach to decision-making, considering planned and potential future development [26].
